Being attached to many things, we are weighed down and dragged along with them. (Discourses I, 1.15)
What should we do then? Make the best use of what is in our power, and treat the rest in accordance with its nature. (Discourses I, 1.17)
I will throw you into prison. Correction, it is my body you will throw there. (Discourses I, 1.24)
Consider at what price you sell your integrity; but please, for God's sake, don't sell it cheap. (Discourses I, 2.33)
What is the goal of virtue, after all, except a life that flows smoothly? (Discourses I, 4.5)
What else are tragedies but the ordeals of people who have come to value externals, tricked out in tragic verse? (Discourses I, 4.26)
Ask me what the real good in man's case is, and I can only say that it is the right kind of moral character. (Discourses I, 8.16)
We, not externals, are the masters of our judgements. (Discourses I, 11.37)
Socrates was not in prison, because he chose to be there. (Discourses I, 12.23)
When someone is properly grounded in life, they shouldn't have to look outside themselves for approval. (Discourses I, 21.1)
Death, [Diogenes] said, was not evil because it was not dishonourable. Reputation was the empty noise of fools. (Discourses I, 24.6)
Death is necessary and cannot be avoided. I mean, where am I going to go to get away from it? (Discourses I, 27.7-8)
I cannot escape death, but at least I can escape the fear of it. (Discourses I, 27.9-10)
Passions stem from frustrated desire. (Discourses I, 27.10)
Correct judgements about externals make our character good, as perverse or distorted ones make it bad. (Discourses I, 29.3)
If you didn't learn these things in order to demonstrate them in practice, what did you learn them for? (Discourses I, 29.35)
Material things per se are indifferent, but the use we make of them is not indifferent. (Discourses II, 5.1)
Because we're the only animals who not only die but are conscious of it even while it happens, we are beset by anxiety.(Discourses II,6.14)
You think I can listen to poetry in my position? Why, what is it? I'm sentenced to death! And the rest of us aren't? (Discourses II, 6, 27)
What illusion about myself do I entertain? (Discourses II, 21.9)
For where else is friendship found if not with fairness, reliability and respect for virtue only? (Discourses II, 22.30)
Keep well out of the sun, then, so long as your principles are as pliant as wax. (Discourses III, 16.10)
Do you want to know if you are educated? Show us your values, philosopher. (Discourses III, 23.9)
Understand what words you use first, then use them. (Discourses III, 23.18)
Friends, the school of a philosopher is a hospital. When you leave, you should have suffered, not enjoyed yourself. (Discourses III, 23.30)
The more we value things outside our control, the less control we have.(Discourses IV, 4.23)
Most apparent philosophers were philosophers not in their actions, only their words. (Fragments 10)
I say that virtue is more valuable than wealth to the same degree that eyes are more valuable than fingernails. (Fragments 13)
We are responsible for some things, while there are others for which we cannot be held responsible. (Enchiridion 1.1)
It is not events that disturb people, it is their judgements concerning them. (Enchiridion 5)
Don't hope that events will turn out the way you want, welcome events in whichever way they happen: this is the path to peace-Enchiridion 8
Under no circumstances ever say I have lost something, only I returned it. (Enchiridion 11)
If you commit to philosophy, be prepared at once to be laughed at and made the butt of many snide remarks. (Enchiridion 22)
Settle on the type of person you want to be and stick to it, whether alone or in company. (Enchiridion 33.1)
[When someone does something you don't like] Say to yourself each time, 'He did what he believed was right.' (Enchiridion 42)
How long will you wait before you demand the best of yourself, and trust reason to determine what is best? (Enchiridion 51.1)
You will give yourself relief, if you do every act of your life as if it were the last. (Meditations II.5)
How quickly things disappear: in the universe the bodies themselves, but in time the memory of them. (Meditations II.12)
Even the smallest thing should be done with reference to an end. (Meditations II.16)
The universe is transformation: life is opinion. (Meditations IV.3)
Do you have reason? I have. Why then do you not use it? (Meditations IV.13)
Look not round at the depraved morals of others, but run straight along the line without deviating from it. (Meditations IV.18)
A thing is neither better nor worse for having been praised. (Meditations IV.20)
Do what is necessary, and whatever the reason of a social animal naturally requires, and as it requires. (Meditations IV.24)
Your life is short. You must turn to profit the present by the aid of reason and justice. (Meditations IV.26)
Everything is only for a day, both that which remembers and that which is remembered. (Meditations IV.35)
In the morning, when you rise unwillingly, let this thought be present: I am rising to the work of a human being. (Meditations V.1)
You can pass your life in an equable flow of happiness if you can follow the right way and think and act in the right way(Meditations V.34)
You will observe this general truth, that whatever is profitable to any man is profitable also to other men. (Meditations VI.45)
Think continually that all kinds of men, pursuits, and nations are dead. (Meditations VI.47)
How soon will time cover all things, and how many it has covered already. (Meditations VI.59)
To the rational animal the same act is at once according to nature and according to reason. (Meditations, VII.11)
In a little while you will have forgotten everything; in a little while everything will have forgotten you. (Meditations, VII.21)
If even the perception of doing wrong departs, what reason is there for living any longer? (Meditations, VII.24)
No man can escape his destiny, the next inquiry being how he may best live the time that he has to live. (Meditations, VII.46)
Only attend to yourself, and resolve to be a good man in every act that you do. (Meditations, VII.58)
Very little indeed is necessary for living a happy life. (Meditations, VII.67)
Consider that men will do the same things even though you would burst with rage. (Meditations, VIII.4)
Whatever man you meet with, immediately say to yourself: What opinions has this man about good and bad? (Meditations, VIII.14)
Nothing should be done without a purpose. (Meditations, VIII.17)
Receive wealth or prosperity without arrogance; and be ready to let it go. (Meditations, VIII.33)
But it is not worthwhile to live if this cannot be done. Take your departure then from life contentedly. (Meditations, VIII.47)
To my own free will the free will of my neighbor is just as indifferent as his poor breath and flesh. (Meditations, VIII.56)
Men exist for the sake of one another. Teach them then or bear with them. (Meditations, VIII.59)
He often acts unjustly who does not do a certain thing; not only he who does a certain thing. (Meditations, IX.5)
As you yourself are a component part of a social system, so let every act of yours be a component part of social life. (Meditations, IX.23)
In a word, if there is a god, all is well; and if chance rules, do not also be governed by it. (Meditations, IX.28)
The work of philosophy is simple and modest. Do not draw me aside into pomposity. (Meditations, IX.29)
The rational animal is consequently also a social animal. (Meditations, X.2)
He who follows reason in all things is both tranquil and active at the same time, and also cheerful and collected. (Meditations, X.12)
No longer talk at all about the kind of man that a good man ought to be, but be such. (Meditations, X.16)
A brief existence is common to all things, and yet you avoid and pursue all things as if they would be eternal. (Meditations, X.34)
A man must learn a great deal to enable him to pass a correct judgment on another man's acts. (Meditations, XI.18)
If it is not right, do not do it: if it is not true, do not say it. For let your impulse be in your own power. (Meditations, XII.17)
First, do nothing inconsiderately or without a purpose. Second, make your acts refer to nothing else but a social end.(Meditations, XII.20)
